OKTA-946182 - Update Okta organizations concept (#5485)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/okta-organizations/index.md

---

# Okta organizations

An Okta organization (org) is a root object and a container for all other Okta objects. It contains resources such as users, groups, and app integrations (apps), as well as policy and configurations for your Okta environment.

Within every org, there are users and apps. These are the only mandatory items that must be configured for your org to use Okta. Users can be created in Okta, imported through directory integrations, or imported through app integrations. Apps are connections to public apps (such as Office 365) or connections to proprietary apps (such as your own apps).

## Org URLs

Okta orgs are hosted on subdomains and each org is assigned a URL. The typical org URL is the tenant name (the subdomain), and then the domain name.

Example domain: `companyname.okta.com`

Example EMEA domain: `companyname.okta-emea.com`

Example preview/sandbox domain: `companyname.oktapreview.com`

You can customize your Okta org URL by replacing the Okta domain name with your own domain name. Using this feature aliases your Okta organization's domain name to another subdomain that you own, like `login.companyname.com`.

> Each organization also has an administrator URL to sign in to the administrator console. The admin URL is the subdomain plus `-admin` (for example, `companyname-admin.okta.com`). If you’ve [customized your domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/), access the Admin Console using your un-customized domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each org also has an administrator URL to sign in to the administrator console. The admin URL is the subdomain plus `-admin` (for example, `companyname-admin.okta.com`). If you’ve [customized your domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/), access the Admin Console using your un-customized domain.
```

Multiple orgs allow for the complete segregation of internal and external users, and apps and changes made to the internal or external org have no impact on one another. However, multiple orgs add complexity in terms of the number of environments to manage. See [Multi-tenant solutions](/docs/concepts/multi-tenancy/).

## Org features

Okta orgs have different features depending on your contract.

A generally available (GA) feature is new or enhanced functionality that is enabled by default for all customers based on your purchase agreement. Features in GA are supported by Okta Customer Support, and issues are addressed according to your Customer Agreement with Okta.

Early Access (EA) features are opt-in features that you can try out in your org by asking Okta Support to enable them. Also, the **Features** page in the Admin Console (**Settings** > **Features**) allows Super Admins to enable and disable some self-service EA features themselves (assuming your org is eligible for the feature).

> You can disable the EA features that you've enabled by clearing the associated checkboxes on the **Features** page. EA features that you disable are re-enabled by Okta automatically when the feature becomes GA.

Reviewer: they're sliders, not checkboxes
```suggestion
You can disable the EA features that you've enabled by turning off the associated option on the **Features** page. EA features that you disable are re-enabled by Okta automatically when the feature becomes GA.
```
